This document records thoughts on new file formats for ALARA.

TREE FILES
-------------
The basic key information for ALARA is essentially the tree
information.  In order to minimize the size of a tree file, the only
data that needs to be stored for each node in a tree is its parent
node number.  Therefore, a tree file might look like:

For each node in all trees:
* nodeNum (integer) - this number is generated sequentially without
                      resetting across all the trees in the problem
* nodeKZA (integer) - this is the standard format KZA for this node
* nodeParent (integer) - this is the reference to the parent of this 
                         node (0 for root isotope)

For 32-bit integers, this is 12 bytes per node.  A typical problem may
have over 30,000 nodes that are not ignored.  This results in a tree
file of size 360kB or so.

NOTES:
* This format would not show ignored nodes which may or not be of
  value. One representative run had 3 times as many ignored nodes as
  not.
* To fully reconstruct pathways, this information would have to be
  processed and complemented with information from the x-section
  library's index (for reaction type info).

DATA FILES
------------
The raw data of new files might be as follows:

For each node in all trees:
* For each interval in the problem that contains that node
  * nodeNum (integer) - see above
  * intvlNum (integer) - this number references the interval
  * relativeN@shutdown (double) - this is the relative number density
				  at shutdown

For 32-bit integers and 64-bit doubles, this is 16 bytes per
interaval*node.  A typical problem may have over 30,000 nodes and up
to 400 intervals.  This results in a data file of upper bound size
180MB.

NOTES:
* Realistic file size: This upper bound assumes that all trees (and
  therefore all nodes) exist in all intervals.  While there may be
  some root isotopes that occur in all intervals, there may be some
  that don't occur in many intervals.  Therefore, the actual size
  may vary substantially from this estimate in either direction.


